>> Mike North: The first domain modeling
concept we're going to dig into,
the first pair of concepts
are value objects and entities.
What are value objects?
These are things that you have to
create some sort of data structure for.
It could even just be like some special
kind of string that has a convention to.
It doesn't have to be fancy, but
these are things that don't
possess a unique identity.
What do I mean by this?
Like, if you had something like an RGB
color which already exists in this app,
like, here's the path in
the workshop project,
which we'll check out in a moment.
You can see that I'm modeling an RGB
color and I've got a red channel,
a green channel, a blue channel, and
an alpha channel for transparency.
Now, we're not going to end
up storing in database.
In our little SQLite database that's
holding all the seed packets and
things behind the scenes, we're not going
to be storing a table of colors where each
color has an id and
we're referring to colors by id.
I guess you could, if you were
doing some sort of theming thing.
But this you want to think about as
being kind of embedded onto more
interesting things.
So we also have a concept of
a distance that already exists the app.
There's a value like three and
then there's a unit like feet or
centimeters or meters.
Those are value objects.
And an important aspect of value
objects is you should be able,
through some code that you write,
to be able to compare them against each
other and check whether they're equal.
Not by just checking ID equals id, but
you're trying to figure out
are these things equivalent.
So this gets a little bit interesting when
you start thinking about units like is 3
meters equal to some
precise number of feet?
Maybe those are equal.
That would be up to you to think about.
Talk to your user.
Does this make sense in that case?
I'd argue probably.
So there are a couple things
going on here in this code.
First off,
we're using a library called TypeORM.
Don't worry if you've never used this,
we're not going to have to worry about it
too much and
we'll incrementally get into this.
But this is a tool for object relational
mapping, and this just means we don't
have to set up a database table and
we don't have to write SQL queries.
There's nothing wrong with that if
that's the way you like to engage with
the database.
But simply by creating a class
like this and denoting that these
Fields represent columns,
where we're saying alpha is a column,
and if it's not specified,
let's assume it has a value of 1.
All the database stuff happens
behind the scenes for us and
we don't have to worry about it.
The second thing is we've got
this peashoot types package.
We'll dive into this a little bit more,
but
I've factored out some shared
types that our front end and
backend both depend on, and
in there you'll find common things that
relate to the shared contract
between these two system components.
So when our UI sends a request to our
backend, there is a clear type for
what that request shape and
the response shape looks like,
as well as any other objects that are
embedded within that request and response.
So that's what you can find
in this types package.
In the types package, you'll see
we're using a library called Zod.
And again, if you haven't used
this before, don't panic.
We're going to get into it incrementally.
But this is a way of defining schemas.
So this adds on top of TypeScript,
runtime type checking.
So by defining an RGB color like this,
we get something that we can use at
runtime to validate that, yes, the red,
green, and blue properties are on this
object and they are in fact numbers.
You can see that we can mark
something as optional or required.
There's a lot here, and I want you to
start with the assumption it's not
strictly two, but start with
the assumption that if you can articulate
a type in TypeScript Zod, you can use
to sort of articulate a schema and
extract a type from that schema so
that you can have both compile time
type checking from TypeScript and
runtime type checking from Zot.
Of course, this doesn't come for free.
Unlike TypeScript types, this doesn't drop
away as part of your compile process.
But that's kind of the point.
So that's value objects.
They're sort of comparable things
that typically get embedded
into other resources, and they don't
have an identity field like an id.
Now, let's talk about entities.
So entities are mutable objects.
Value objects are generally immutable.
You create a new one.
If you want to change
the color of something,
you create a new color that's
a slightly different color.
Entities are different.
These represent things
that you will persist.
They are mutable, they can change.
And generally, at least in this app,
they're all going to have an ID of some
sort so if we're going to take a peek
at what our database looks like,
and you don't have to be
a database expert here, but
you're going to see that each
of these corresponds to a table.
And the way you can tell the difference
between a value object like this and
an entity is this entity decorator
that you're adding to the class.
This is what signifies that this is
sort of a top level thing that ends up
being persisted in a database.
When you start working with entities,
relationships get really interesting.
You can have a has many relationship or
a one to one relationship, whereas
that color concept just ends up kind of
being embedded in the object, if you will.
We're going to walk through the process
of checking the git repo for
this gardening app out and
we're going to kind of warm up and
do some very basic modeling, like figure
out what entities are important and
value objects for a part of this app
called the Temperature Date Calculator.
So the problem to solve
here is as a gardener,
I want to be able to select a location,
type in a temperature,
and I want to know what is
the date where I can be assured
that the temperature in my location
will be at or above that level.
So a concrete example
here is tomato plants.
They want to go outside when
the nighttime temperatures are above
50 degrees Fahrenheit.
And so I need to know, what is that date?
That's very important to me because I work
backwards from that date to sort of like,
how long do they have to grow inside and
then when should I plant my seeds?
And sort of it's a really important part
of sort of working back from the date they
go outside.